In Anthropic Bias, Nick Bostrom proposes the following: “All other things equal, an observer should reason as if they are randomly selected from the set of all extant observers in their reference class.” We can understand what he means by this through an example. If you select a person at random, the likelihood of them being white would be about 10%. Since you are a human and thus in the same reference class, what he’s saying is that the likelihood of you being white is also 10%. This principle is straightforward and it aligns with our everyday intuitions. For instance, one may consider themselves lucky to have an IQ of 160 or be 7ft tall, in part because these traits are extremely rare.

The problem with Bostrom’s proposition is this fuzzy notion of “reference class” and why it needs to exist at all. If I’m already accepting the idea that my traits are variable, then why isn’t my reference class variable as well? Why is my species the one thing taken for granted? I don’t think there is a good answer to that.

My adjustment to Bostrom’s proposition is this: “All other things equal, a mind should reason as if they are randomly selected from the set of all extant minds.” The likelihood of existing as a human being would then correspond to man’s prevalence within the animal kingdom. Pair this idea with something like panpsychism and you get what I call the Fine Life Problem, the cousin of the Fine-tuning Problem. In short, it needs to be explained why one finds themselves situated at the apex of consciousness. 

With this in mind, let's switch focus to panpsychism. It maintains a respectable position among the top four-ish most popular contemporary metaphysical disciplines. In general, it’s the idea that the physical universe corresponds to experience. This is a reasonable interpolation from the fact that one’s own nervous system corresponds to a state of experience, which is the one data point anyone actually has in the matter. Of course, something like a lone hydrogen atom would not correspond with experiential complexity, and neither would most aggregates of matter (like a mound of dirt or a building).

This idea of the equivalence between the physical and the experiential is important, but before we get to that, we have to determine what the word physical actually means. It's truly fascinating to see most physicists subscribe to physicalism when they themselves define our universe in terms of its behavioral properties. You aren't going to find a definition of the word physical in any textbook, let alone a definition for the more fundamental concept of corporeality. Instead, you’ll find everything from matter to spacetime defined by their behavior. So, going forward, physical equals behavioral.

The relationship between behavior and experience is indeed one of equivalence. They are equally fundamental, ubiquitous, and capable of explaining every facet of our universe in their own terms. However, there is one constituent of existence which is missing. We could not even begin to discuss any of these things if they were not also intelligible in essence. Intelligibility is the truth, pattern and order inherent in reality. A term that fits well here is the Greek word “Logos”, which has a rich intellectual and spiritual history in the west, but I’ll stick with intelligibility.

There is another important attribute to this trinity, which is derivation. Complex behavioral systems can be explained by simpler, more fundamental behaviors, all the way down to quantum fields. Similarly, complex truths can be extrapolated from simpler truths, and sophisticated experiential states are variations of more primal levels of consciousness. Taking this pattern to its logical conclusion, I believe that the three equivalent constituents of existence–behavior, experience and intelligibility–derive from a pure simplicity that transcends all categories, distinctions and attributes. 

King Solomon famously proclaims in Ecclesiastes 1:9, "What has been will be again, what has been done will be done again; there is nothing new under the sun." This holds completely true in the case of my conception of "a pure simplicity" as ultimate reality. It has existed for the last 2,000 years in the Christian tradition as apophatic theology. Before that, it appeared in the Platonic tradition as "the One" or "the Good," and another 1,000 years before Plato, it was present in the Upanishads as "Nirguna Brahman".

Now that we have moved beyond panpsychism to a more substantial metaphysic, we can come back to the Fine Life Problem. Remember, the objective here is to render your extraordinary existential circumstances ordinary, unprivileged, or otherwise expected. This isn't easy, especially when nobody has tackled this particular problem before. To skip a lot of pain, my solution is this: “An individual only perceives the variant of themselves that realizes the ineffable simplicity that underlies all of existence. Your own humanity demonstrates this principle, as you remain nothing more than inept, commonplace matter in an infinite majority of timelines.” 

This is both a subtler and more precise formulation of the Fine Life Problem as well as the solution to it, with each tied to my personal metaphysical system. The reasoning here being that if the multiverse didn’t exist, you’d have to explain the massively fortunate coincidence that you became anything more than commonplace matter in the one timeline that exists. The multiverse necessitates a kind of “perceptual selection”, since you could only ever perceive a single variant of yourself. All we have to do is postulate that the multiverse exists and that this perceptual selection is aimed towards a higher state of consciousness, and the Fine Life Problem is pretty much solved. In addition to this, the improbability of living in such close proximity to a technological singularity further suggests that your enlightenment will be permanent, likely aided by future advancements in biotechnology.
