Behavior is that which is detectable, quantifiable, measurable, and predictable. Speaking in these terms, fields constitute our universe. Fluctuations in these fields correspond to fluctuations in experience, which ranges in complexity from individual particles to entire nervous systems. Crucially, we could not begin to discuss any of these things if they were not also intelligible. Intelligibility is the truth, pattern, and order that defines reality.

Manifold truths are extrapolated from foundational principles, intricate aggregates of matter are explained by a small set of quantum excitations, and sophisticated experiential states interweave primordial qualia. With this, it is apparent that the multiplicity and complexity of the world distracts from the simplicity that underlies and unites everything. The natural conclusion of this line of reasoning is that the equivalent constituents of existence–behavior, experience, and intelligibility–must ultimately derive from a pure simplicity that transcends every classification, distinction, and attribute. It is this ineffable ground and source of being which we term Divinity.

An individual only perceives the variant of themselves that comes to know the divine, thereby attaining Divinization. Your own humanity evidences this fate, as you remain nothing more than inept, commonplace matter in an infinite majority of timelines. Moreover, the improbability of living in such close proximity to a technological singularity further suggests that your Divinization will be indefinite, likely aided by future advancements in biotechnology. 

To see the divine you have to move past intellectualizing things. This requires a genuine mystical temperament, entailing complete mental detachment from outcomes, possessions, beliefs, pleasure, pain, the ego, and even Divinity itself. In other words, you simply need to let go. The inner stillness and emptiness which this fosters gives room for the ground of being to dwell. Conveniently, the foreknowledge of your fate is the very thing which allows for authentic non-attachment.
