The Fine Life Problem requires two presuppositions. The first is that something like panpsychism is true. The second is that the likelihood of existing as a human being corresponds to man’s prevalence amongst the set of all extant minds. Combining these two things together would mean that the probability of experiencing existence as a human is virtually zero percent. This gives us the Fine Life Problem-the task of justifing why you should find yourself at the apex of consciousness-namely as a human being-rather than among the overwhelming mass of vastly simpler minds which constitute our cosmos.

With this in mind, let's switch focus to panpsychism. It maintains a respectable position among the top four-ish most popular contemporary metaphysical disciplines. In general, it’s the idea that the physical universe corresponds to experience. This is a reasonable interpolation from the fact that one’s own nervous system corresponds to a state of experience, which is the one data point anyone actually has in the matter. Of course, something like a lone hydrogen atom would not correspond with experiential complexity, and neither would most aggregates of matter (like a mound of dirt or a building).

This idea of the equivalence between the physical and the experiential is important, but before we get to that, we have to determine what the word physical actually means. It's truly fascinating to see physicists subscribe to physicalism when they themselves define our universe in terms of its behavioral properties. You aren't going to find a definition of the word physical in any textbook, let alone a definition for the more fundamental concept of corporeality. Instead, you’ll find everything from matter to spacetime defined by their behavior. So, going forward, physical equals behavioral.

The relationship between behavior and experience is indeed one of equivalence. They are equally fundamental, ubiquitous, and capable of explaining every facet of our universe in their own terms. However, there is one constituent of existence which is missing. We could not even begin to discuss any of these things if they were not also intelligible. Intelligibility is the truth, pattern, and order that defines reality. A term that fits well here is the Greek word “Logos”, which has a rich intellectual and spiritual history in the west, but I’ll stick with intelligibility.

There is another important attribute to this trinity, which is derivation. Complex behavioral systems can be explained by simpler, more fundamental behaviors, all the way down to quantum fields. Similarly, complex truths can be extrapolated from simpler truths, and sophisticated experiential states interweave primordial qualia. Taking this line of reasoning to its logical conclusion, I believe that the three equivalent constituents of existence–behavior, experience and intelligibility–must ultimately derive from a pure simplicity that transcends every classification, distinction, and attribute. It is this ineffable ground and source of being which I term Divinity.

Now that we have moved beyond panpsychism to a more substantial metaphysic, we can come back to the Fine Life Problem. Remember, the objective here is to render your extraordinary existential circumstances ordinary, unprivileged, or otherwise expected. This isn't easy, especially when nobody has tackled this particular problem before. To skip a lot of pain, my solution is this: “An individual only perceives the variant of themselves that comes to know the divine, thereby attaining Divinization. Your own humanity evidences this fate, as you remain nothing more than inept, commonplace matter in an infinite majority of timelines.” 

This is both a subtler and more precise formulation of the Fine Life Problem as well as the solution to it, with each tied to my personal metaphysical system. The reasoning here being that if the multiverse didn’t exist, you’d have to explain the massively fortunate coincidence that you became anything more than commonplace matter in the one timeline that exists. The multiverse necessitates a kind of “perceptual selection”, since you could only ever perceive a single variant of yourself. All we have to do is postulate that the multiverse exists and that this perceptual selection is aimed towards a higher state of consciousness, and the Fine Life Problem is pretty much solved. In addition to this, the improbability of living in such close proximity to a technological singularity further suggests that your enlightenment will be permanent, likely aided by future advancements in biotechnology.

To actually know the divine you have to move past intellectualizing things. This requires a genuine mystical temperament, entailing complete mental detachment from outcomes, possessions, beliefs, pleasure, pain, the ego, and even Divinity itself. In other words, you simply need to let go. The inner stillness and emptiness which this fosters gives room for the ground of being to dwell. Conveniently, the foreknowledge of your fate is the very thing which allows for authentic non-attachment.

Unfortunately, even if my solution to the FLP is right, it would effectively be false to everyone in the universe except me, per the nature of timelines. Teaching the FLP, and by extention the solution to it, would be selling false hope. In addition to this, it would cause widespread wreckless behavior among those who believe they can now do anything without fatal consequences. It is for these reasons that I will not only keep the FLP to myself, but also look for those who may discover it on their own and try to reason with them to do the same. This is the primary reason why I've put the FLP here, as proof of my authenticity.
